Welcome to fvwm.  Fvwm is a multiple large virtual desktop
window manager, originally (a looooong time ago!) derived from twm.

Fvwm is intended to have a small memory footprint but a rich feature
set, be extremely customizable and extendible, and have a high degree of
Motif mwm compatibility.

Fvwm 2.6.X marks a new development model for fvwm.  Previously, fvwm ran two
different code bases, one for development which is marked with odd numbers
in the form of "X.ODD_NUMBER.Y" and stable release in the form of
"X.EVEN_NUMBER.Y".  The odd-numbered releases were considered unstable;
where new features were tried and tested.  The even-numbered releases were
for stable version of fvwm where backwards-compatibility was maintained.

Starting with 2.6.X though, this is no longer the case.  There is only ever
one version of fvwm and there is no longer a version which is considered
unstable.  A released version of fvwm is always considered stable, and
if/when the version number of fvwm reaches an odd-number, such as 2.7.X,
that is not to be considered as unstable, rather, just an increment on its
versioning.

ALL VERSIONS OF FVWM PRIOR TO 2.6.X ARE NOT SUPPORTED UPSTREAM.

Users of fvwm prior to 2.6.X can make use of the fvwm-convert-2.6 utility to
try and have their configuration file converted to a newer syntax.  Please
see its manpage for more details on how to use it.

Fvwm's original author, Rob Nation (THANKS ROB!), has "retired" from
work on it, so please don't bother him with silly little things like bug
reports or enhancement requests.  Care and feeding of fvwm is now
handled by a group of people on the fvwm-workers mailing list, with many
contributions by fans everywhere.

If you have any questions, concerns, bug reports, enhancement requests,
etc., please read the files in the docs/ subdirectory first.  In
particular the FAQ, BUGS, and TODO lists.  Also, check the fvwm man page
carefully.  Next, try the fvwm mailing list.  Another excellent resource
is the official WWW page http://www.fvwm.org and the mailing list archives
found there.

For information on compiling and installing fvwm, see the INSTALL and
INSTALL.fvwm files (INSTALL is the boilerplate autoconf instruction
file; INSTALL.fvwm contains fvwm-specific details).

Bugs can be reported to the fvwm-workers mailing list.  See
http://www.fvwm.org for details on fvwm-specific mailing lists.

Have fun!

 -- The fvwm-workers

